README.md, before:

# Your Fitness / Your Life

- Fitness tracking web appliction for people serious about improving their health.
- Application tracks all aspects of User's daily food intake and exercise regimen.

## Technologies Used in Development
- Client-side: HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS, Thymeleaf, JavaScript.
- Server-side: Java SDK 18, Spring Boot, Tomcat Server, Maven Build Tools, Spring Security.
- Data access: Spring Data JPA, MariaDb.
- SMS messaging: Twilio API.
- Version control: GitHub.



## User Flow / App Functionality
- User logs in each day and is prompted on HomePage to Create a Daily Health Profile in which they input their Current Weight, Weight Goal, and Exercise Level. 
- Daily Target Calories are calculated and User may proceed to Create a Meal or Create a Workout.
- HomePage displays User’s current Personal Records for each Exercise performed in all saved Workouts.

- To Create/Save a Meal, User creates/adds Servings of individual Food Items. Saved Servings/Meals are deletable.
- To Create/Save a Workout, User creates/adds Sets of individual Exercises. Saved Sets/Workouts are deletable.
- All Users can add any Food Items or Exercises stored in the DB regardless of which User created it.
- Users have ability to Create new Food Categories, Food Items, Exercise Categories, and Exercises.

- Profile Page allows User to select a date and view all Meal/Workout Cards pertaining to that date.
- User is shown the Total Calories, Protein, Carbohydrates, and Fat amounts consumed for all meals on the selected date. 
- User is informed if, on the selected date, fewer or greater calories than the Target Calorie amount were consumed.
- Profile Page displays Today’s weight, exercise level, target calories, and weight goal for comparison to the selected date.
- Profile Page allows User to update any data originally inputted at time of registration.  User may also delete their account.

- If User’s Daily Target Calories are exceeded (upon saving a new Meal), User receives a detailed text message containing words of encouragement within 3-4 seconds informing of same so the User can stay on track with their weight goal.
- If User achieves a new Personal Record for any Exercise (upon saving a new Workout), User recieves a detailed text message of congratulations within 3-4 seconds.

## Description of Functionality For All Controller Classes

<a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NfciJLEmpYaysyvyymCTEvvb_erk786KrhxmxelmN4k/edit?usp=sharing" target="_blank">Controllers Description - Google Doc</a>

## Wireframes

<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-1.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-2.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-3.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-4.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-5.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-6.jpg"> 

## User Stories

- As a User, I want to create a daily health profile in which I input my weight, weight goal, and exercise level to calculate my daily target caloric intake.
- As a User, I want to track all of the specific food items I consume each day.
- As a User, I want to track the total number of calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrates consumed each day.
- As a User, I want to be able to create/store food items for later use in Servings/Meals.
- As a User, I want to create Servings of individual food items and save them as a Meal.
- As a User, after I save a Meal, I want to view instant data re: all calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrates consumed so far that day AND how many calories I am either below or above my daily target caloric intake amount.
- As User, I want to receive a text message alert when I have exceeded my daily target caloric amount so I can refrain from additional consumption and stay on track with my weight goals.
- As a User, I want to have access to my daily meal information for any date I select and have the ability to compare my past health profile information with today’s.
- As a User, I want to track all of the Workouts of exercises I perform each day.
- As a User, I want to track the specific sets of exercises contained in each Workout, including name, weight and repetitions.
- As a User, I want to be able to create/store exercises for later use in Sets/Workouts.
- As a User, I want to create Sets of individual Exercises and save them as a Workout.
- As a User, after I save a Workout, I want to view instant data re: all Workouts and my Personal Records for each Exercise.
- As User, I want to receive a text message alert when I achieve a new personal record for a particular exercise as this is motivation to continue my health journey.

Commit message:

added link to Controllers Description Google Doc

README.md, after:

# Your Fitness / Your Life

- Fitness tracking web appliction for people serious about improving their health.
- Application tracks all aspects of User's daily food intake and exercise regimen.

## Technologies Used in Development
- Client-side: HTML, CSS, Tailwind CSS, Thymeleaf, JavaScript.
- Server-side: Java SDK 18, Spring Boot, Tomcat Server, Maven Build Tools, Spring Security.
- Data access: Spring Data JPA, MariaDb.
- SMS messaging: Twilio API.
- Version control: GitHub.



## User Flow / App Functionality
- User logs in each day and is prompted on HomePage to Create a Daily Health Profile in which they input their Current Weight, Weight Goal, and Exercise Level. 
- Daily Target Calories are calculated and User may proceed to Create a Meal or Create a Workout.
- HomePage displays User’s current Personal Records for each Exercise performed in all saved Workouts.

- To Create/Save a Meal, User creates/adds Servings of individual Food Items. Saved Servings/Meals are deletable.
- To Create/Save a Workout, User creates/adds Sets of individual Exercises. Saved Sets/Workouts are deletable.
- All Users can add any Food Items or Exercises stored in the DB regardless of which User created it.
- Users have ability to Create new Food Categories, Food Items, Exercise Categories, and Exercises.

- Profile Page allows User to select a date and view all Meal/Workout Cards pertaining to that date.
- User is shown the Total Calories, Protein, Carbohydrates, and Fat amounts consumed for all meals on the selected date. 
- User is informed if, on the selected date, fewer or greater calories than the Target Calorie amount were consumed.
- Profile Page displays Today’s weight, exercise level, target calories, and weight goal for comparison to the selected date.
- Profile Page allows User to update any data originally inputted at time of registration.  User may also delete their account.

- If User’s Daily Target Calories are exceeded (upon saving a new Meal), User receives a detailed text message containing words of encouragement within 3-4 seconds informing of same so the User can stay on track with their weight goal.
- If User achieves a new Personal Record for any Exercise (upon saving a new Workout), User recieves a detailed text message of congratulations within 3-4 seconds.

## Description of Functionality in Controller Classes
- This document details all HTTP requests/routes in all Controllers including: where requests originated in the View, data sent/retrieved to/from database through service method calls, all data attributes added to model, html pages returned, and reasons for the forgoing activity based on User experience considerations.
- <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NfciJLEmpYaysyvyymCTEvvb_erk786KrhxmxelmN4k/edit?usp=sharing" target="_blank">Controllers Description - Google Doc</a>

## Wireframes

<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-1.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-2.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-3.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-4.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-5.jpg"> 
<img src="src/main/resources/static/img/wireframe-6.jpg"> 

## User Stories

- As a User, I want to create a daily health profile in which I input my weight, weight goal, and exercise level to calculate my daily target caloric intake.
- As a User, I want to track all of the specific food items I consume each day.
- As a User, I want to track the total number of calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrates consumed each day.
- As a User, I want to be able to create/store food items for later use in Servings/Meals.
- As a User, I want to create Servings of individual food items and save them as a Meal.
- As a User, after I save a Meal, I want to view instant data re: all calories, fat, protein, and carbohydrates consumed so far that day AND how many calories I am either below or above my daily target caloric intake amount.
- As User, I want to receive a text message alert when I have exceeded my daily target caloric amount so I can refrain from additional consumption and stay on track with my weight goals.
- As a User, I want to have access to my daily meal information for any date I select and have the ability to compare my past health profile information with today’s.
- As a User, I want to track all of the Workouts of exercises I perform each day.
- As a User, I want to track the specific sets of exercises contained in each Workout, including name, weight and repetitions.
- As a User, I want to be able to create/store exercises for later use in Sets/Workouts.
- As a User, I want to create Sets of individual Exercises and save them as a Workout.
- As a User, after I save a Workout, I want to view instant data re: all Workouts and my Personal Records for each Exercise.
- As User, I want to receive a text message alert when I achieve a new personal record for a particular exercise as this is motivation to continue my health journey.
